At times, a select statement result set can contain duplicate values. 
Based on our simplified library database model, in the author table example, the country column lists the two-letter country code of the author's country. 
If we select just the country column, we get a list of all of the countries. 

For example, select country from author order by 1. 
The order by clause sorts the result set. 
This result set lists the countries the authors belong to, sorted alphabetically by country. 
In this case, the result set displays 20 rows, one row for each of the 20 authors. 
But some of the authors come from the same country, so the result set contains duplicates. 
However, all we need is a list of countries the authors come from. So in this case, duplicates do not make sense.
To eliminate duplicates, we use the keyword distinct. 
Using the keyword "distinct" reduces the result set to just six rows. 

But what if we wanted to also know how many authors come from the same country? 
So now we know that the 20 authors come from six different countries. 
But we might want to also know how many authors come from the same country. 
To display the result set listing the country and number of authors that come from that country, we add the "group by" clause to the select statement. 
The "group by" clause groups a result into subsets that has matching values for one or more columns. 

In this example, countries are grouped and then counted using the count function. 
Notice the column heading for the second column and the result set. 
The numeric value "2" displays as a column name because the column name is not directly available in the table. 
The second column in the result set was calculated by the count function. 
Instead of using the column named "2," we can assign a column name to the result set. We do this using the "as" keyword.

In this example, we change the derived column name "2" to column name "Count" using the "as count" keyword. 
This helps clarify the meaning of the result set.
Now that we have the count of authors from different countries, we can further restrict the number of rows by passing some conditions. 
For example, we can check if there are more than four authors from the same country. To set a condition to a "group by" clause, we use the keyword "having".
The "having" clause is used in combination with the "group by" clause. 
It is very important to note that the "where" clause is for the entire result set, but the "having" clause works only with the "group by" clause.
To check if there are more than four authors from the same country, we add the following to the select statement, having count country greater than four.
Only countries that have five or more authors from that country are listed in the result set. 
In this example, those countries are China with six authors and India, also with six authors.
